You learn about several algorithms for computing words embeddings.
Another algorithm that has some momentum in the NLP community is the GloVe algorithm.
This is not used as much as the Word2Vec or the skip-gram models,
but it has some enthusiasts.
Because I think, in part of its simplicity.
Let's take a look.
The GloVe algorithm was created by Jeffrey Pennington,
Richard Socher, and Chris Manning.
And GloVe stands for global vectors for word representation.
So, previously, we were sampling pairs of words,
context and target words,
by picking two words that appear in close proximity to each other in our text corpus.
So, what the GloVe algorithm does is,
it starts off just by making that explicit.
So, let's say X_ij be the number of times that
a word i appears in the context of j.
And so, here i and j play the role of t and c,
so you can think of X_ij as being x subscript tc.
But, you can go through your training corpus and just count up
how many words does a word i appear in the context of a different word j.
How many times does the word t appear in context of different words c. And
depending on the definition of context and target words,
you might have that X_ij equals X_ji.
And in fact, if you're defining context and target in terms
of whether or not they appear within plus minus 10 words of each other,
then it would be a symmetric relationship.
Although, if your choice of context was that,
the context is always the word immediately before the target word,
then X_ij and X_ji may not be symmetric like this.
But for the purposes of the GloVe algorithm,
we can define context and target as
whether or not the two words appear in close proximity,
say within plus or minus 10 words of each other.
So, X_ij is a count that captures how often do words i and j appear with each other,
or close to each other.
So what the GloVe model does is,
it optimizes the following.
We're going to minimize the difference between theta i
transpose e_j minus log of X_ij squared.
I'm going to fill in some of the parts of this equation.
But again, think of i and j as playing the role of t and c. So this is a bit
like what you saw previously with theta t transpose e_c.
And what you want is, for this to tell you how related are those two words?
How related are words t and c?
How related are words i and j as measured by how often they occur with each other?
Which is affected by this X_ij.
And so, what we're going to do is,
solve for parameters theta and e using gradient descent to minimize the sum
over i equals one to 10,000 sum over j from one to 10,000 of this difference.
So you just want to learn vectors,
so that their end product is a good predictor for how often the two words occur together.
Now, just some additional details,
if X_ij is equal to zero,
then log of 0 is undefined, is negative infinity.
And so, what we do is,
we want sum over the terms where X_ij is equal to zero.
And so, what we're going to do is,
add an extra weighting term.
So this is going to be a weighting term,
and this will be equal to zero if X_ij is equal to zero.
And we're going to use a convention that zero log zero is equal to zero.
So what this means is,
that if X_ij is equal to zero,
just don't bother to sum over that X_ij pair.
So then this log of zero term is not relevant.
So this means the sum is sum only over the pairs of
words that have co-occurred at least once in that context-target relationship.
The other thing that F(X_ij) does is that,
there are some words they just appear very often in the English language like,
this, is, of, a, and so on.
Sometimes we used to call them stop words but there's really
a continuum between frequent and infrequent words.
And then there are also some infrequent words like durion,
which you actually still want to take into account,
but not as frequently as the more common words.
And so, the weighting factor can be a function
that gives a meaningful amount of computation,
even to the less frequent words like durion,
and gives more weight but not an unduly large amount of weight to words like,
this, is, of, a, which just appear lost in language.
And so, there are various heuristics for choosing this weighting function F that
need or gives these words too much weight
nor gives the infrequent words too little weight.
You can take a look at the GloVe paper,
they are referenced in the previous slide,
if you want the details of how F can be chosen to be a heuristic to accomplish this.
And then, finally, one funny thing about this algorithm is
that the roles of theta and e are now completely symmetric.
So, theta i and e_j are symmetric in that,
if you look at the math,
they play pretty much the same role and you could reverse them or sort them around,
and they actually end up with the same optimization objective.
One way to train the algorithm is to initialize theta and e
both uniformly around gradient descent to minimize its objective,
and then when you're done for every word,
to then take the average.
For a given words w,
you can have e final to be equal
to the embedding that was trained through this gradient descent procedure,
plus theta trained through this gradient descent procedure divided by two,
because theta and e in this particular formulation play
symmetric roles unlike the earlier models we saw in the previous videos,
where theta and e actually play different roles and couldn't just be averaged like that.
That's it for the GloVe algorithm.
I think one confusing part of this algorithm is,
if you look at this equation, it seems almost too simple.
How could it be that just minimizing
a square cost function like this allows you to learn meaningful word embeddings?
But it turns out that this works.
And the way that the inventors end up with this algorithm was,
they were building on the history of
much more complicated algorithms like the newer language model,
and then later, there came the Word2Vec skip-gram model,
and then this came later.
And we really hope to simplify all of the earlier algorithms.
Before concluding our discussion of algorithms concerning word embeddings,
there's one more property of them that we should discuss briefly.
Which is that? We started off with this featurization view
as the motivation for learning word vectors.
We said, "Well, maybe the first component of the embedding vector to represent gender,
the second component to represent how royal it is,
then the age and then whether it's a food, and so on."
But when you learn a word embedding using one of the algorithms that we've seen,
such as the GloVe algorithm that we just saw on the previous slide,
what happens is, you cannot guarantee that
the individual components of the embeddings are interpretable.
Why is that? Well, let's say that there is some space where the first axis is
gender and the second axis is royal.
What you can do is guarantee that the first axis of the embedding vector is
aligned with this axis of meaning, of gender, royal, age and food.
And in particular,
the learning algorithm might choose this to be axis of the first dimension.
So, given maybe a context of words,
so the first dimension might be this axis and the second dimension might be this.
Or it might not even be orthogonal,
maybe it'll be a second non-orthogonal axis,
could be the second component of the word embeddings you actually learn.
And when we see this,
if you have a subsequent understanding of linear algebra is that,
if there was some invertible matrix A,
then this could just as easily be replaced with A times
theta i transpose A inverse transpose e_j.
Because we expand this out,
this is equal to theta i transpose A transpose A inverse transpose times e_j.
And so, the middle term cancels out and we're left
with theta i transpose e_j, same as before.
Don't worry if you didn't follow the linear algebra,
but that's a brief proof that shows that with an algorithm like this,
you can't guarantee that the axis used to represent
the features will be well-aligned with what might be easily humanly interpretable axis.
In particular, the first feature might be a combination of gender,
and royal, and age, and food,
and cost, and size,
is it a noun or an action verb,
and all the other features.
It's very difficult to look at individual components,
individual rows of the embedding matrix and assign the human interpretation to that.
But despite this type of linear transformation,
the parallelogram map that we worked out
when we were describing analogies, that still works.
And so, despite this potentially arbitrary linear transformation of the features,
you end up learning the parallelogram map for figure analogies still works.
So, that's it for learning word embeddings.
You've now seen a variety of algorithms for learning these word embeddings and you get
to play them more in this week's programming exercise as well.
Next, I'd like to show you how you can use
these algorithms to carry out sentiment classification.
Let's go onto the next video.